In the last two lectures you have seen how can you use gates to create authorization constraints and
then check if certain user can't perform specific action by using gate denies FISA the method.
And also we have used the outer Rice helper to simplify this for us.
Now let's run.
Peach bee artisan Tinker.
Inside the terminal and let's see how can we check if our specific user that we specify is able to perform
a specific action.
So what we have here is our blog post list and we have terminal on the right.
So first we'll list all the users that we have inside the database by calling user.
All right.
Now we see some users on the right.
Basically we have all of the users from our database and we see blog posts.
So when you will hover under the on this title on the bottom of this browser page you can see the I.D.
of this blog post and this particular one happens to have the I.D. 17.
So remember what I.D. your blog post has because of obviously it might be different on your machine.
This one has I.D. 17 and we'll verify that for other user than this one.
So it is our data log Reinhold and let's find here a user that has a different idea like we.
I will use Ty Rick Cummings.
So first I will fetch this user using the user model.
Find a method with the I.D. 21 so I have it here and then I will fetch the blog post so blog post find
and I will use that I.D. 17 the one that you can see by hovering over the blog post.
So I am making sure that I am fetching a blog post that is being outlawed by different user than this
one.
OK.
So far so good.
Now let's clear the screen and see what can we do with gates so we can use the gate file for seed inside
the lateral thinker and to check if certain user can perform an action on this particular gate we can
use for user.
And here you will have to pass the instance of the model of the user that we have fetch which had a
name Dereck and then we can do what we did before.
So we can call denies let's for example check if this particular user is well can't edit a blog post
so we'll pass the instance of the post and you can see that it returns true which means that this user
cannot edit this blog post but it's not all.
So we can check it for particular user also using that allows method.
So it's just opposite of denies.
It's just depends what you will have to do in your code are to one particular place and what would make
more sense.
So we are just basically calling the same thing but using allows and you can see that it returned false.
So when you need to check not if the currently authenticated user can do something but whether a specific
user can do something you can use this for a user and also it's good to remember that the gate I say
does not only contain that the nice method which checks if certain user can't do something but it also
contains the allows method which checks if the user can do something.